Hey YouTube. Hey Brian. Hey. Hey, great to be here with you as always. Good to be here.
Thanks everyone who is out there in the live stream watching. As always, put your comments
and thoughts into the live stream. We'll try to make them part of the show if they fit.
That's much appreciated. If you're watching the playback, well thanks, but obviously no
time travel so no live chat. Well not yet Brian, no one's come back from the future
to tell us. No actually we invented time travel. But I'm assuming, I'm assuming. Anyway, thanks
for being here either way and yeah let's just kick it off.
All right sounds good.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 330 recorded April 4th, 2023. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> Brian O'Connor And I'm Brian O'Connor.
>> Brian O'Connor And you can connect with us over on Fosstodon.
If you're on Mastodon, find us there. I'm@mkennedy@fauceton.org. Brian's Brian O'Connor
over there. And the show is at pythonbytes@fauceton.org. And if you're interested in the video version,
check out pythonbytes.fm/live, click that,
go over to the YouTube channel, subscribe, get notified,
you'll get a little pop-up when we start streaming live.
It's always fun to be part of it.
We encourage people to check the show out that way as well.
So Brian, let's start off with something
that has been almost exactly one year in the works.
- I was just gonna ask you about that.
So was this about a year ago
we talked about this Pydantic rewrite?
I think I saw something on Twitter of all places from Samuel Colvin saying it was April
4th, 2022 that I started working on Pydantic version 2.
So that sounds like to the day.
Okay.
Well, it's not completely here yet, but it's here enough to try.
So I'm pretty excited about it.
So by Pydantic V2 version two pre-release.
So people can, it's available now.
So people can install it.
You have to do the, like the pip install --pre
Pydantic and then you can say by Pydantic greater
than or equal to 2.0 A1, I guess,
if you want to get the alpha one or better.
So the big news is alpha one's available
and it's pretty exciting.
there's a whole bunch of great stuff changes.
We've talked, I think we talked about it.
You talked about it on your show, I think also.
- Yeah.
- But the headlines here is,
well, one, it's not complete yet.
This is the alpha.
We're not even debate is yet.
So if you see, if you try it out and you see something,
they've got a GitHub created GitHub issue
and they want to have people use the bug V2 label
to create issues around the version two.
'cause I wanna hop on those right away.
Anyway, so the big change was,
one of the big changes was to move all a lot of Pydantic
and the rules and everything
into a different module called Pydantic Core.
That one's mostly written in Rust.
And so it's like five to 50 times faster overall
for performance.
So that's pretty exciting.
'Cause these are, I mean, this is,
When you're using Pydantic,
it's hitting for every interaction, right?
So as fast as possible is great.
And I do like the idea of the,
like the separating the rust part out
into a different module,
different package Pydantic core,
so that they can have kind of maintain it
and have safety and maintenance around that
a little separate.
I think that makes sense.
- Yeah, and people used to have to create
their derived classes
and put a lot of their customization
and their what's called root level validators
and things like that where it's like,
I wanna validate the whole class,
not just a certain field or if this is set,
then that has to be set that way.
A lot of those things had to be done in an OOP way.
And I think with the PyDandic core,
you have more direct access to a layer below.
So it's not just faster, which is fantastic,
but it also opens up more ways to interact with PyDandic,
which is cool.
- Yeah, so they've got a lot of stuff working already.
They want people to be able to experiment
and try out their base model changes,
a lot of the same features for validation,
but there's new method names and it is a change.
Data classes, serialization, strict mode,
different schemas, lots of changes for V2.
So I'd like people to try it out.
There is a lot of stuff still under construction,
mostly documentation.
And some of the, like some of the base settings
have changed from, there were base settings
and now they're gonna be in by Pydantic settings.
That's not quite ready.
So there's still some work to do,
even in the migration guide.
So there's, they've gotten the start of the migration guide,
but it's not there.
As you see on like the, some of the links,
there's changes to data classes, changes to base model.
Some of the stuff's already there,
but it's still under construction.
So pretty exciting.
- Yeah.
I'm definitely excited.
And the five to 50 times faster, that's no joke.
There's the idea, okay, well, what are you doing?
I'm like parsing like a settings file
or I got a single JSON document, whatever.
All the FastAPI is deeply, not all,
but much of FastAPI is deeply based on exchanging
rich data with Pydantic.
So your API layer could get much faster.
And you can also use this, people maybe don't realize it,
you can use this with other frameworks as well.
You could use it with Flask, you could use it with Pyramid.
FastAPI is cool because you can put just,
there's a argument of type Pydantic model
and it automatically fills it all in.
But all you got to do is just take,
here's the post dictionary and feed it to a Pydantic model.
like just inside the function as the first line
and you're in the same place.
You can use this across all these areas.
Then for example, Python bytes.fm is powered by Beanie,
which is Pydantic plus MongoDB plus Async, which is awesome.
But every single database record comes back,
goes through Pydantic.
And if you're using something like Beanie or SQL model
and FastAPI, your data layer goes through Pydantic
and your web layer, 'cause there's like multi-layered
Pydantic operations on every interaction.
And so making that part five to 50 times faster
is just huge, right?
That's a really big surface area to make a lot faster.
I got speed ups as well to talk about later in the show.
- Yeah, so I guess--
- Not that much area, that's awesome.
- One of the things you bring up,
which is interesting is that a lot of people,
I mean, there's tons of people that use Pydantic
just by itself with their own code.
But the people that mostly touch it through FastAPI or Beanie
or something, they may have to wait
until those projects bring on the changes then,
unless those projects have branches for V2, which who
knows.
Yeah, I hope so.
And maybe there's a way--
I think the breaking changes in, say, base model, for example,
are, I think they're kind of deprecated already.
- Okay.
- In 1.10.7, just they're still there, right?
But I think they become breaking changes here.
If you're also, if you're doing model validation,
a lot of the function names gets changed.
Yeah, like things like from RM go away.
There's a bunch of little, I don't think they're big changes
that are gonna be a huge problem for people,
but they are incompatibilities as you point out.
With Roman Wright and Sebastian Ramirez
are seem to be really on top of their projects,
respectively Beanie and FastAPI.
So I feel like by the time this becomes fully released,
they'll be there.
- Yeah, and what's one of the reasons why I covered
is to try to like promote everybody.
- Nudge, nudge, hey, exactly.
- Nudge, nudge.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
- Please.
(laughing)
So, yes.
- Indeed.
Yeah, it would be awesome that when this comes out
for just, boom, V2 is out.
You just update all the packages that depend upon it.
And you can adopt it right away.
That would be great.
>>To be fair, let's say I'm working on a side project that's
using FastAPI or Beanie or something,
and I don't have it in production yet.
I'd be like, yeah, let's use V2 right away.
But if I've got a production system,
I don't want to switch right away.
So I get that there's projects at different levels.
And group projects like FastAPI and Beanie
You have to keep that in mind.
>> Very cool.
Well, this is exciting to me.
I've known this has been coming for a long time,
so excellent work.
>> What you got for us?
>> Well, that's quick real-time follow-up.
I interviewed Samuel Colvin.
He loves to do stuff on the 4th of months,
apparently on August 4th,
that's last year called Titanic V2, the plan.
So people can check that out if they're interested.
Let's talk about something really small, okay?
- Okay.
- From a friend of the show, Miguel Grinberg.
And he created this thing called micro dot.
Micro dot, it's very small.
It's bigger even than like the semi dot
or the regular dot, very small.
(laughing)
- It's just quick.
- Yeah, so back to web frameworks.
This is the impossibly small web framework
for Python and MicroPython.
So I believe its reason for existence
really is to basically bring something like Flask
to MicroPython and CircuitPython, which is cool.
However, it also runs under standard CPython,
which opens up some interesting possibilities as well.
- Cool.
- So if we go down here,
So if you're familiar with the Flask API,
you should be real familiar with micro dot.
So app equals, instead of Flask, you say micro dot.
Got a function.
It says I want to do an app dot route on it.
Or I don't know if he supports a direct verb,
HTTP verbs there, like app dot get,
app dot post like Flask adopted recently,
but app dot route for sure.
And then one of the differences is you have to pass a request object into the functions there,
whereas Flask has this thread local ambient variation of this thing.
So you'll get like a 500 error if you try to, you know, just run this directly without adding that request.
So it's easy to overlook.
But other than that, other than the fact that there's a request parameter to the views,
basically the same thing.
- Hmm.
- Okay, so yeah, that's pretty interesting.
Now, there's a bunch of compromises that are made here
because MicroPython doesn't support Jinja,
it doesn't support Flask, all of these different things.
All right, so there is a template language,
but it's not Jinja, right?
So there's a bit of a migration
if you were going to take this on, right?
So you can run it under CPython,
but you can also run it under MicroPython.
There's the HTTP methods.
I think you see the old style.
No, no, there is an app.get.
You can do the old style
where you pass the method names like get and post,
or you can just do an app.get.
But yeah, again, if you're familiar with Flask,
the way you do routes,
the way you pass data into the functions,
all those things are absolutely the same,
which is pretty cool.
One thing you can do is you can return JSON responses
and you can even just return a dictionary
which I don't think you can do in Flask.
Maybe you can, but I think you have to JSONify it.
I think you gotta say Flask.JSONify.
So this is kind of an upgrade, I would say.
So if you have a little tiny thing, like let's see.
Hold on, let's get it.
Little tiny thing like this, Brian.
Okay.
All right, here, how big is that?
You know, like, not, about the size of my hand,
like the half the way across the palm of my hand.
Got one of these little tiny
micro Python, circuit Python things.
You can now put APIs on here,
and you can put even really interesting things
like it has support for concurrency.
So Flask doesn't support directly having async and await,
I don't believe, not fully anyway.
You gotta switch over to court to do that.
I think they partially support it,
but not full async and await.
But you can use the MicroPython asyncio extension here
and get APIs running with full async and await,
concurrency support, doing JSON or other things.
Maybe I didn't think, not sure.
- Pretty cool, 'cause a lot of the,
I mean, that's just a easy, like,
throw in a REST API or some sort of API on something
to throw back JSON to,
that would be really cool.
And you don't need, I mean, for applications like that,
you don't need a lot of templating around.
- Yeah, and so let's see, go to the core extensions here.
You can see there's actually a bunch
of cool core extensions.
So got the async and await support.
So all you gotta do is just,
where am I gonna scroll?
Just write async def endpoint, right?
Boom, off it goes.
- Yeah, 'cause you really wanna async that hello world.
- Yeah, for hello world, not so much.
But if you're talking to, you know,
files like similar database or something.
- Yeah, that's true.
- You can use, what is that, micro template?
It says uTemplate, but I bet it's a micro.
- I think it's pronounced template.
- Template, yeah, uTemplate.
It's a lightweight and memory efficient template for Python,
which it looks very, very Jinja-like as well.
So that's a pretty straightforward thing,
but it's not identical, right?
What else we got?
- Ooh, this is Jinja, isn't it?
- Oh, can you?
(Jesse humming)
But no, hold on, it's CPython only.
- Oh, okay, okay, got it.
- So, 'cause it's not supported in MicroPython.
- Got it, but if you're doing it on CPython,
you can add those templates.
- Yes, this is actually why it's pretty interesting to me.
So you can do TLS, HTTPS support, right,
which is pretty cool.
You have WebSockets, you have asynchronous WebSockets,
you have cores, cross-origin, resource sharing settings,
and you can even deploy it.
So it comes with its own little web server,
which you can run on your MicroPython DLE, right?
But if you were gonna put this into a big data center
on a huge rack of servers,
that might not be the best choice.
So you can run it on MicroWSGI, which is awesome.
You can run it on G-Unicorn.
You can even run it on GUnicorn with UVicorn workers
to get like the awesome libUV high performance
async support, right?
So you can deploy it onto kind of the top tier Python stuff,
put, you know, Nginx in front of it and all that.
It's pretty cool, right?
- Yeah.
- Now, what are the ways you run web apps on servers,
especially in Python,
because of the threading support is not as friction-free,
I guess, like the GIL and all that,
is you'll farm it out into multiple workers, right?
So I can't remember what we have for Python bytes,
not too many, like two or four different worker processes.
And each of the worker processes
kind of gets round-robin brought in to handle a request.
So like if one of them is busy,
it'll automatically send the request over to another one.
Now, usually there's maybe a couple of limits,
but one of the limits you really wanna consider is,
I don't wanna run the machine out of memory.
So I think the ones we use like 150 megs per worker process.
So at some point you can only create so many
and then the servers like, okay, I've had it.
But with this little thing that runs on MicroPython,
you could scale the heck out of it.
You could have a ton of worker processes under MicroWSGI.
- Oh yeah.
- Or under UVicorn, right?
And I actually did a little super simple test.
Like I wrote the Flask equivalent of hello world,
literally exactly the same code
with the changes I talked about.
And then the micro Python version,
the sorry, the micro dot version.
And that one, both running on CPython,
nine megs for this framework,
25 megs for the Flask framework.
So maybe you can have twice as much processing
horizontal scale with this thing, but deployed to real servers.
So there might actually be some interesting advantages to having
this like really tight framework.
Like I want to run it in a bunch of Docker containers that are like
using the smallest amount of memory.
I want to farm it out and say, no, I'll have 30 worker processes on the server.
Not five.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Oh, Pample is pretty psyched about the memory saving out there as well.
So I think it's good.
Yeah.
And I mean, for lots of jobs where you don't need
if you don't need the power, don't use the power.
So, yeah, yeah, pretty neat.
So well done, well, and yeah.
Over to you.
What's your next one?
I want to talk about GitHub actions a bit.
So a lot of my workflows have moved over to GitHub actions.
And so there's actually three projects that I wanted to talk about
that I thought were neat and worth.
and they're all kind of in the GitHub action genre.
>> Whatchka.
>> Whatchka. What you got first?
WatchGHA, it comes from Ned Batchelder.
This is just a simple tool
to watch your GitHub action progress from a command line.
I think it's a command line thing, looks like command line.
And so it looks, so you can,
it has like a little progress bar thing,
progress dots that go green and then they start out gray
and then they go white and green and stuff
to see the different things.
You got like, we were running 3.7 on Ubuntu, 5.8.
So if you've got a big matrix that's doing a lot of stuff,
it's kind of hard to keep up with what all is going on.
So this is kind of neat to watch,
just a little tool from Ned.
Thanks, Ned.
One of the other things I was thinking about,
so I just, my talk at PyCascades was talking about
that you can share, you can just,
you can share packages without actually ever building it
because pip install will build your wheel for you
if it's not built already.
But you probably should test that.
And one of the ways you can test some of that building
is with Hinix build and inspect Python package.
- Oh, cool.
- So this is a GitHub action that will,
it does a lot of stuff,
but it does a build to make sure the build works.
It also has a linter to lint the wheel contents.
It also uploads the wheel and the source distribution
as GitHub action artifacts.
So it actually does generate the wheel for you
as an artifact, which is kind of neat.
The, it also, one of the things that's,
one of the things that's always a mystery to me
is like the, making sure I have everything that I want
in the SDist, the source distribution,
and this will lint that and also,
well, I guess it doesn't lint the contents of the SDist,
but it does print them out.
So print does a tree of the SDist and the wheel
in the output so that you don't have to download it
to check it, you can just look at it.
- That's cool.
Make sure all the files and resources
you might need to send out come along.
- Yeah, and this, yeah,
I had recently made a change to a package
and it took out the tests and I had somebody say,
oh, look, we want the tests back in.
So it's kind of nice.
So let's, I guess that's it with that.
It's kind of a neat GitHub action thing
that you just put it in.
It's one of those actions.
So you just like specify it and it just works.
It's nice.
The third thing I wanted to bring up was
pytest GitHub actions annotate failures.
So this is a, just a nice extra thing
that I hadn't heard about before.
pytest, it's under the pytest dev umbrella,
but it's a pip install sort of thing.
And what it does is it makes sure
that all the proper stuff gets output
so that you can have nice annotated,
if there's failures, it's annotated nicely
in GitHub Actions.
That's it.
Just some fun GitHub Action stuff.
- Yeah, once you really start getting into CI/CD,
it's fun and you're just like,
oh, and now that it's automated, we could do this,
so we could do that.
- Yeah, and then, but when you automate all the things
and then when things go wrong, you're like,
oh God, then we have to pull it down and check it again.
But having, so having some of these debug stuff
and things up in the cloud is good.
- Yeah, very handy.
Excellent, all right, well, I have a PEP for us to discuss.
- Okay.
709, inlined comprehensions.
Now, this is a debate that I seem to have only on YouTube.
If I'll do, like I've done some videos
about list comprehensions or other sort of design patterns,
you might involve comprehensions and people are like,
oh, Michael, you said that a for loop
is different than a list comprehension,
but look, it says for thing in collection.
And so they're the same.
And so I just don't, you just don't know what you're talking about.
Like, you know what, let's disassemble it.
Let's see what it does.
Is it the same disassembly?
No, it's completely different disassembly.
That means the implementation of this comprehension, they're different.
I don't care if the word for appears in both of them.
They're not the same thing.
This PEP brings them kind of tries to take the both the best of both worlds though.
And it says, there are some things we do to make
comprehensions work, but look like they're just right there
in the same function or in line, even if you don't have
a function, but in fact, there's kind of this,
this thing behind the scenes is happening where we create
a nested function that you never see, but the interpreter
creates and then calls it and that's the interpreter.
Okay.
That's the comprehension rather.
So this PEP by Karl Meyer is basically saying
we could get really good performance increases
if we just change that implementation a little.
And the reason it's created as a nested function
and not just some inline code is,
what if you have a variable X in your regular function,
and then you have X as a loop variable
or as the item variable in your comprehension
or things like that, right?
You want them to still be isolated.
So that's basically the idea here.
It says, "Comprehensions are currently compiled
"as nested functions, which provides isolation
"of the comprehension's iteration variable,
"but is inefficient at runtime."
So pep709 proposes to inline list dictionary
and set comprehensions into the code
where they are defined and provide the expected isolation
by looking at all the variables,
creating a copy of them, running this in place.
And then if there was a variable for that loop variable,
just put the old value back.
I kind of push and pop them there.
And the benefits here are up to two times as fast
as comprehensions are today.
So then they said, this is translating to an 11% speed up
in one sample benchmark derived from real world code
that makes heavy use of comprehensions
in the context of doing actual work.
That's pretty cool, right?
- Yeah.
- I believe comprehensions were in general,
slightly faster than for loops
that would just do something and put it in a list.
So making it two times faster still is even better.
So this gets adopted, it's in draft form right now.
I can go back to my YouTube comments
and have even further nuanced discussions
about like, here's yet again,
how they are not the same thing, but they look similar.
So let's, yeah.
- I never would have thought that
I should reuse a variable in a comprehension though.
I don't do that, but I guess.
- No, I think it's like,
if let's say you've got two less comprehensions,
you know, X squared for X in first set,
than 2x plus 1 for x in other sets.
Those are two separate list comprehensions.
You don't want one of those variables, too.
You want to keep them--
they want to be like, OK, this x is only for this comprehension.
That's what it's like.
So if you have an embedded comprehension,
you might use x in both places.
Right, or if you have an x and y equals something,
and then you generate a comprehension,
you say x in there.
There's a couple of--
Yeah.
I mean, I guess I was just thinking my own style.
The second one I would never do.
If I was already using X, I probably
wouldn't use X in the comprehension.
But I'll often use I or X in a comprehension in embedded ones
and don't even think about it.
So yeah, interesting.
Cool.
Yeah.
David Poole says, I'm sure there's good reasons for it,
but I wonder why comprehensions don't use name mingling
strategies for their var names.
Everyone's got to be named underscore, underscore X.
(laughing)
- That reminds me of a joke.
- Well, so what it's doing now is it basically says,
we're going to create a function
and so that variables are basically a local variable,
that function, which has no influence on it.
Were you gonna actually tell us the joke?
(laughing)
- No, I was gonna wait.
- Okay, all right.
Or should we do it now?
I think it was Ned Batchelder actually that mentioned that Dunder,
we often talk about Dunder and Nit instead of double underscore and it,
but it's really underscore, underscore, and it underscore, underscore.
So it's really quunder.
Quunder.
And so I responded to him and said, "I don't think so.
I think it's Dunder and Nit Dunder is what it should be."
But that would be redundant.
- It's pretty bad.
That's pretty much on par with the joke we got at the end.
So, all right.
So if one, basically the way to understand this,
you can't look at the code and tell, right?
Which is why people incorrectly
try to correct me on YouTube.
So you look at the code and it looks like,
oh, it's just a four lists.
And we took out the line breaks and put brackets.
So it's the same thing.
So if you look at it now, you can see,
if you create a function that creates a list comprehension,
you'll see it creates what's called a code object
of type list comprehension, then it calls make function,
then it loads the list,
and then it does a bunch of stuff on it.
And then it actually, you can see there's like
this sub function that gets disassembled,
and it says, we're gonna build a list,
load fast, iterate it, list append,
and what's really interesting,
This is the part that differs from for loops.
There's a byte code called list_append.
If you do this with a for loop where you have a list
and you call append, it loads the function append
and then calls append on the operands.
But it's not in the runtime in a for loop.
In a comprehension, there's a special byte code that runs.
And that's the primary difference.
But the drawback-- so the benefit
is list append is a byte code operation, not a function call.
But the drawback is there's this object created,
there's a stack frame created, there's a function call
over to this comprehension call.
There's an issue with all that stuff, right?
So the new one just says, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna create a new opcode
called load fast and clear, which is like,
I'm gonna load the variable x
and if there was one of those before,
we're going to hang on to that just in case.
so we can put it back to avoid that.
And then it calls buildList, and you can notice there's no...
There's no function call, so no stack frame,
no extra function call, there's no list comprehension object,
all those things. And so this is the new bytecode operation
that manages that variable isolation,
and then you just do it directly, which saves you a bunch.
We talked about the 2x speed there.
So that's the pep.
People check it out, see what you think.
>> That's really interesting, Michael,
but you had me at it's faster.
>> I know exactly. I just want people to know
what's happening and why it might be faster and so on.
So pretty neat.
You can see it does have the only possible,
I guess, concern.
The reason they say, why is this even a pep?
Why is this not just, hey, I made it faster.
Like, why do we need to discuss this?
- Yeah.
- 'Cause like you said, Brian, like it's faster.
We're done, let's go.
Is there are user observable changes
if the user doesn't like themselves, basically?
For example, why would a user return locals
as the item you want put into a list
during a list comprehension?
Well, if you did do that,
you would see that it's not the same as before.
I have no idea why you would ever try to do that,
but that technically would be a breaking change.
The other one, slightly more valid perhaps,
is that if there's an exception inside
the list comprehension,
because it used to be in a separate function call,
it would show up in the actual trace back call stack.
But now you are not in another function,
it's on a line in the OG function.
So you don't have that.
Basically it's missing from there.
So you would have a slightly different traceback exception.
The exception would be the same, but the traceback call stack listing would be different.
That potentially affects somebody, but not a lot.
I don't know.
It's a two X, it's a trade off.
I would totally think it's worth taking.
- Yeah, but I see why that's a,
it's a observable interface or an observable behavior change.
So yeah.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Although I learned from Brett Cannon
just a couple of weeks ago that
locals often has weird stuff in it.
If you look at locals a lot,
sometimes there's stuff in there that you don't recognize.
- Interesting.
Yeah, the locals one seems like, you know what?
- Don't do that.
But the trace back one, I can see, okay,
we're always looking for this.
And like, if I get an error,
I try to like look at the trace back
to figure out what to tell people.
Or I don't, theoretically, could have,
it still seems unlikely.
I feel like you shouldn't depend upon what's listed there,
but I'm sure somebody does somewhere.
- Well, like ID makers and things like that.
- Yeah, yeah, cool.
That's it for all of our items.
You got any extras?
I don't. Do you?
I thought I didn't have any extras.
I think by the time... I'm going to try to predict the future a little bit
because I have some control over it.
I do have an extra.
I'm going to be releasing either today or tomorrow.
By the time this podcast comes out,
this is going to be released.
But if you're watching it live, it's not yet released.
So I'm going to be releasing a new course, Python Web Apps
that Fly with CDNs.
This is just over a three-hour course
that's all about taking CDNs and applying them
to Flask web apps, and also hosting video content
and large files, and how do you geo-replicate that.
We use a lot of these techniques in Python Bytes
to make the website faster, as well as
to deliver terabytes of MP3s to people.
So check that out.
I will put a link in the show notes.
Again, if you're listening live, this is not out yet,
but it will be out by the time the MP3
hits your podcast player.
So if you have the audio only version,
go check it out, link's in the show notes.
- Nice.
- Yeah, I think that's a really, really cool course.
I think there's so much people can get out of it
in terms of like, it's really easy, you know,
30 minutes and you're like, oh, our app is so much faster
and we can use smaller servers.
That's really great.
Well, three hours plus 30 minutes.
- Yes, well, once you know the thing,
it's probably 30 minutes to apply to your app.
That's what I mean.
Yeah.
David Poole says, "The traceback one could be worked around
"if the debug compiled used the old function style method,
"like aggressive optimizations in GCC
"with inline functions."
Okay, possibly, interesting.
You'd have to have people buy into that, but right.
I mean, I'm sure Brian, you're very well aware
of the debug versus release builds and optimization levels
and all that stuff in C, right?
- No, I mean, yes, but I don't use them.
- No, you don't need that.
- Well, I personally don't like to test
in something my user isn't gonna see.
So I always test in optimized released.
- Got it, yeah, yeah.
But it can make a big difference.
But in the Python world,
we don't really discuss that so much, right?
- Yeah, and except for the comment,
the one thing to be aware of that I would,
while we're on it,
we probably haven't mentioned this lately,
is asserts are awesome in your test code,
but they're not that great in your,
actually, they're pretty great in your function code also,
but just don't depend on it,
because assert lines can be completely removed
if you have the optimization on, so.
- Absolutely.
All right, you ready for a joke?
Yes.
Are you a fan of movies?
Like watching movies and stuff?
Yeah, I just went to a great movie.
Yeah, so.
Nice.
Well, as a software person, especially if you do a lot with Linux or macOS, you might
not be able to watch the movies too much.
This one says, "I can't watch movies on my computer.
All it does is bash scripts."
Bash on the scripts of the movie.
Oh, okay.
Not plot.
Or run shell scripts.
I'm not sure which.
- Okay, that's funny.
I think.
- Sort of, yeah.
(laughing)
Somewhat.
Anyway, that's what I got for you.
I have an incredible one that I wanna put up,
but it's like only video that has music
and no spoken word.
So I don't think it fits for this format.
But you know what, I'll throw it in.
I'll throw it in.
People also check out the movie.
It's about releasing stuff to production.
So it's pretty epic.
put it on the list, but we won't play something that's like 30 seconds long that has nothing
but music.
Cool.
Nice.
All right.
Is that all we got?
That's all we got.
It's a wrap.
So it's a wrap.
Yeah.
Thanks as always.
Thank you.
See you later.
Bye.
Thanks everyone for listening and being here on YouTube.
Those of you who are in the show.
[BLANK_AUDIO]